- JESSE: Fair warning.
This is gonna be weirder...
... than usual.
Can't be helped.
You called me.
So here I am.
I know I shut you out sometimes.
I'm always glad to hear from you.
It's just that...
...I get my hopes up.
So many times it led to nothing.
I found nothing.
It's like...
...we live in a room.
And there's a poster on the wall.
We stare at it and we think
that's the whole world.
The room.
And the poster.
The picture's something nice.
A landscape.
A famous person.
Like in that movie.
What is it called?
The prison movie?
The room's a cell. And the picture, it's...
...different for each of us.
It can be beautiful.
Or terrible.
But we're all transfixed.
But it's all a lie.
Something to distract us from the truth.
They're lying to us.
We're lying to ourselves.
The room's not the world. The world...
is much bigger and much stranger.
There's a hole hidden behind that poster
that leads to the real world.
We all feel safe in that room.
But sometimes...
Sometimes, something crawls out
from behind the poster.
And the ones that see it happen freak out.
And try to forget what they saw.
I'm here.
Why did you bring me here?
Hello?
Anyone here?
Yeah, I see it.
But what is it?
I can feel it, it... resonates.
The thing you showed me, my friend.
I forget.
It's all in my head.
There's no "you," right?
Where's everybody?
I need someone to point me
in the right direction.
(CHECKPOINT GATE BEEPS)
Federal Bureau of Control.
All these years I've been looking for them
and they were hiding in plain sight.
(DISTANT HUMMING)
Hello?
- MAN: (SINGING ALONG)
- JESSE: Hey, excuse me.
- JANITOR: There you are.
You are here to about the job.
Janitor's assistant.
You need to go to the interview.
Go that way to the elevator.
- JESSE: Thanks. Elevator that way.
Got it.
- JANITOR: Very good.
I'm Ahti, the janitor, by the way.
You'll work for me.
You can say I sent you.
If they don't hire you,
(IN FINNISH) then it's totally fucked up.
(IN ENGLISH) There be work for the axe...
...take them behind the sauna, jumalauta.
- JESSE: I've done enough nightshift loner jobs
to know it makes us come off weird.
Ahti, the janitor, is a friendly face in my book.
- AHTI: Better than somebody
with no face at all.
(CHUCKLES) Think about it.
No face.
(ELEVATOR BELL RINGS)
- JESSE: The cell, and the poster.
I was eleven years old the first time
I saw behind the poster.
They told me I imagined it.
I've been trying to pull it down ever since.
Will you help?
Did I lose you there for a moment?
You know what's on my mind.
My baby brother, Dylan.
Seventeen years since
the man of this bureau took him.
(DISTANT ALARM SOUND)
(DISTANT GUNSHOT)
(GASPS)
Shit!
Shit shit shit!
You want me to pick it up?
The murder weapon? Really?
(UNINTELLIGIBLE SPEECH)
And there goes the poster.
- DARLING: Objects of Power can cause, or be results of, AWE's,
Altered World Events, intrusions upon the perceived reality. Now...
The Service Weapon is, of course,
a prime example of an OoP, a very powerful one.
Ingrained in the bureau's DNA, a key component
in our Prime Candidate programme.
Come out of that Russian roulette a winner
and you (CHUCKLES) you're it.
(UNINTELLIGIBLE SPEECH)
- JESSE: Look at this place.
Where am I?
(UNINTELLIGIBLE SPEECH)
The same...
(EFFORT GRUNT)
Okay, now I have the gun.
(UNINTELLIGIBLE SPEECH)
- TRENCH: Something's coming.
This threat...
An attack.
duty as director.
Keep the bureau safe.
- JESSE: Did you hear that?
It's the dead man.
Right after the pyramid spoke to me
and there was just noise and...
I understood every word.
And this gun's alive.
You know what?
I'm happy.
Happy to be here.
Things have quieted down outside.
Is it safe to go?
(GROANS) What is that?
You can't let this happen.
You can't let this happen!
You can't LET THIS HAPPEN!!
(WHISPERING) You can't let this happen.
You stopped it.
(CHUCKLES) You...
Thank you!
That was...
...horror...
Get the fuck away!
- TRENCH: The hotline...
A secure line of communication.
Guidance.
Reach the hotline.
- JESSE: The hotline?
...says the dead man?
Okay.
(ENEMY SPAWN SOUND)
(INDISTINCT, UNINTELLIGIBLE SPEECH)
The hissing sound
that tried to invade me earlier.
The hiss.
Burrowing into everything in this place.
Is the Hiss your enemy?
Alright, it's our enemy.
- TRENCH: Must cleanse Control Points.
An enemy.
Corrupt.
Spreading.
- JESSE: Cleanse the Control Point?
What does that mean?
Help me fix it.
Holy shit!
You did it!
We did it!
- WOMAN: Hello?
Can you hear me?
Are you with us?
We're the bureau.
Are you still...
- JESSE: I can't tell you how happy I am
to talk to somebody sane.
- WOMAN: The feeling is mutual.
I'm Pope, Emily Pope.
Dr. Darling's assistant.
- JESSE: My turn.
Should I lie?
Jesse Faden.
I'm just visiting.
I should've lied.
- EMILY: Holy shit!
You're the new director!
Hold on! We're coming out.
(DOOR OPENS)
Director... Faden.
- JESSE: Call me Jesse.
- EMILY: Okay, Jesse. I'm Emily.
But somehow this hostile force... this...
- JESSE: Hiss?
- EMILY: That works.
Somehow the Hiss managed to infiltrate
the building without any warning.
- JESSE: And just like that,
my name for it is official, the Hiss.
Like the sound of poison gas leaking in.
- EMILY: We're in full lockdown.
It seems to have spread
everywhere and everyone...
...not protected by an HRA.
And... extraordinarily, you.
You are the director and...
...that makes you special by definition.
Trench is no longer the director, obviously.
Ah... I'm sorry, I'm talking too much.
This... whole situation is just... a lot.
- JESSE: Trench is dead.
Shot.
Ah, I found his body.
And the gun.
Do I tell her it looked like a suicide.
- EMILY: The Service Weapon.
- JESSE: Also...
...and this can sound crazy.
But he keeps appearing to me.
Saying things...
It's hard to make out, but he told me
to cleanse the Control Point.
Push the Hiss out.
The whole room shifted around.
- EMILY: You did that?
And you entered the building when it's already
in the lockdown. Before you became the new director?
How?
- JESSE: I'm not ready
to tell her about you yet.
A janitor let me in.
- EMILY: (SCOFFS) I love it!
This is fucking unbelievable! It's...
I can't even...
(SCOFFS) Look, Jesse.
I have a million questions and...
You probably have a million more.
- JESSE: Like, do you know my brother Dylan?
Not yet.
- EMILY: But there's something
I need to ask you to do first.
If you can cleanse a Control Point...
...then you can maybe cure those infected
...or possessed by the Hiss.
Because if that's possible...
...our options are very different.
- JESSE: Emily Pope.
I don't know her. But I like her already.
She's the opposite of the faceless agency
I've blamed for what happened to me for so long.
But I can't trust her yet.
Or rather the bureau she's a part of.
Yes.
I can try.
I'm speaking for you, of course.
We can try it together.
Okay, you're with me?
We did it before.
Push the Hiss out.
(EFFORT GRUNT)
Come on, come on!
It didn't work.
The Hiss has burrowed too deep.
Ripping it out rips them apart.
I can't clease them.
- EMILY: I saw.
It was worth the shot.
Thank you, Director... Jesse!
- JESSE: I'm gonna tell her why I'm here.
I'll risk it.
Listen.
The bureau was involved in an...
...incident in my hometown, Ordinary.
17 years ago.
The bureau came in
and covered the whole thing up.
I've been looking for this place
for a long time.
That's enough.
Maybe that's too much already.
I can't tell her about Dylan
and the rest yet.
- EMILY: I've seen mentions of
an Altered World Event case dealing with Ordinary.
You were at Ground Zero as a child?
It was one of the big ones before my time.
And very classified.
I can try to dig out some old files for you.
My boss, Casper Darling, would know but...
He's missing.
I think he knew this was coming or suspected.
He came up with the HRAs,
the Hedron Resonance Amplifers.
I think they're what saved us, or...
...a few of us.
And director Trench would know.
- JESSE: Trench.
The ghost... or... whatever he is...
He mentioned something called the Hotline.
Said I should find it.
It's another Object of Power like the gun.
An old Bakelite telephone.
A direct line of communication
between the director and the Board.
Maybe he can talk to you
more clearly through that.
I mean, Trench had years and years of experience.
He might know how to destroy the Hiss.
- JESSE: Where is the Hotline?
- EMILY: It's kept in the Communication Department,
through the Mail Room.
It's part of this sector so we can access it
even with the lockdown in place.
We'll get the door open for you.
- JESSE: Okay. That's my next stop.
- EMILY: That Tommasi's department.
He's the Head of Communications.
I don't think he had an HRA.
He kinda made a point
about not wearing one earlier.
Keep an eye out.
- JESSE: They called me The Director.
(SCOFFS) That's not me.
I'm not a director type.
Not a leader.
Why am I here?
I think you already know.
Yes, I came for my brother
but there are other reasons too.
I said I was looking for answers
but I might never understand them.
I'm not looking for proof.
This is already it, more than enough.
No matter what they told me
all those years, I know it's real now.
I didn't imagine this.
I wanna be a part of this world.
What scares me shitless
is that I finally found it.
Only to see the Hiss destroy it all.
(PHONE RINGS)
- EMILY: I know this is all new to you.
So don't hesitate to ask me anything you wanna know.
There are no stupid questions.
The door to the Comms Department is...
The Hotline should be
in the Communications Department.
- JESSE: Where does the Hiss come from?
- EMILY: I'm not sure. You said
the Hiss was here when you entered.
Did you see anything like that outside
before you came in?
- JESSE: No, no just inside.
- EMILY: The source is internal then.
The Oldest House is the sprawling complex
with... openings to other places as well.
I don't even know where to start looking.
But in the context, it's good news.
The lockdown holds.
The Hiss escaping the building would be the end.
Pretty shitty world out there
if you ask me but...
I wouldn't want the Hiss to destroy it.
- JESSE: With you on that, Emily.
You mentioned the Oldest House.
What is it?
- EMILY: This building, the bureau headquarters,
the Oldest House, is a shifting place.
You've seen it,
it transcends its physical limits.
- JESSE: I've been to New York a few times...
How didn't I notice this place?
- EMILY: It's an attribute of the building.
This is the place of power.
The Oldest House doesn't like attention so
unless you're purposedly try to find it, you don't.
Which is perfect for us.
The work we do here is essential but...
...unstable.
The bureau prefers not to be noticed.
And we need strong walls to make sure
nothing gets out.
- JESSE: So without you,
I never would've found the front door.
Okay.
This Trench guy...
I keep hearing him in my head.
Is he a ghost...
...haunting me?
- EMILY: I doubt we're talking about
ghosts in a traditional sense...
...but an echo, maybe.
See, if he was killed
by the Service Weapon, your gun.
Maybe it's his final thought recoded
by the bullet in his brain, like a...
...a deep space probe's
sending back data.
That's just a hypothesis on my part
I need the gun to research it.
(CHUCKLES) But... you better hold on to that
given the circumstances.
- JESSE: I think I will.
Yeah.
Can you tell me what
an Object of Power is, exactly?
This is all...
Well... new to me.
- EMILY: (CHUCKLES) Don't worry.
I love going over the basics.
So Objects of Power are mundane objects
that have paranatural energies.
...and have developed a link to the Astral Plane
and can thus be controlled.
Which is what differentiates them from Altered Items
which are still housings of paranatural forces...
But are more volitale and cannot be bound
in the parautilitarian sense.
Got it?
- JESSE: Did she memorise this?
Got it.
Thanks.
So HRAs stop you from becoming Hiss.
- EMILY: It seems that way.
I hadn't even heard of an HRA until a few weeks ago
when Dr. Darling started handing them out.
Well, I began analysing mine as soon as I got it.
And each one, it seems to emit a powerful
short range frequency way beyond anything I've ever seen.
- JESSE: Doesn't the timing seem suspicious?
- EMILY: I thought that too.
Dr. Darling usually likes to unveil
his latest breakthrough in big presentations.
With these, he just passed them out.
His behaviour makes me wonder
what exactly he knew.
- JESSE: Thanks, Emily.
I'm sure I'll have more questions soon.
- EMILY: Just let me know.
(UNINTELLIGIBLE,
DISTORTED SPEECH)
- JESSE: There it is again.
A welcome message.
(ENEMIES SPAWN)
(INTENSE MUSIC PLAYING)
Communications. We're on the right track.
And an Object of Power.
Looks like the Hiss have latched onto it.
We need to cleanse it.
(EFFORT GRUNT)
(UNINTELLIGIBLE SPEECH)
It's harder to hear you when I'm here.
It's like the channel's been changed.
The Board is in charge here.
Their pyramid's in the bureau seal.
Are they really the ones pulling the strings?
I'm not their director.
I'm no one's director.
(UNINTELLIGIBLE SPEECH)
There you are. You were gone. Cut off.
Emily said that the Hotline can be reached
through the Mail Room.
(UNINTELLIGIBLE,
DISTORTED SPEECH)
This must open the door.
They can fly now.
Great!
I have a feeling he'll be back.
Let's stay focused.
The Hotline should be past the Mail Room.
The Hotline can't be far now.
(PHONE RINGS
IN THE DISTANCE)
(PHONE RINGS LOUDER)
- TRENCH: The Oceanview Motel and Casino.
dream-logic.
Light switch cord.
Door marked with black pyramid.
- JESSE: Woah!
Have we been here before?
No.
I've stayed at a lot of roadside motels
across the country, on the road...
♪ (MUSIC PLAYING VIA RADIO) ♪
...on the run, under the radar.
This feels like...
...all of them, like...
...something recognised from a dream.
(BELL RINGS)
(DOOR OPENS)
Hello! Anyone here?
A key has a black pyramid on it.
♪  ♪
(PHONE RINGS)
(UNINTELLIGIBLE SPEECH)
- DARLING: It is a phone.
It's an Object of Power.
It doesn't connect to any typical network.
A direct line to
the Astral Plane and the Board.
And my hypothesis is...
...under the right condition
to other planes of existences as well.
(PHONE RINGS)
- TRENCH: A director needs a team.
My management team.
These people know the secrets
of the bureau as well as I do.
Some even better.
Darling. Tommasi. Salvador. Marshall.
Marshall especially,
my Head of Operations.
She sees right through me.
She knows I don't like relying on people.
The only person you should fail
is only yourself.
But things change when you become director.
- JESSE: I have it. The Hotline.
I can reach Trench.
Well, listen to him.
He feels more like an... echo.
An echo with important info.
I need to get back to Emily.
People react strongly
when I tell them about you.
Is it too soon to tell Emily?
She might be able to help.
- EMILY: Jesse! Did you get the Hotline?
How is it out there? The Comms, the Hiss?
Sorry.
- JESSE: I got the Hotline, I can make out
what Trench's saying now.
- EMILY: Incredible!
What did he say?
- JESSE: He talked about his management team.
People who knew the bureau's secrets.
Your boss, Darling, Tommasi, but...
...he's gone. The Hiss got him.
Salvador.
- EMILY: He's the Head of Security.
- JESSE: And Marshall.
- EMILY: Helen Marshall is Head of Operations.
She's tough. ex-CIA.
She took her rangers and went
to the Research Sector to secure the HRA production.
She hasn't come back.
- JESSE: Someone who could help us.
The other sectors, how do I get there?
- EMILY: It's impossible
because of the internal lockdown.
You can perform the directorial override to lift it
but that can only be done in the Maintenace Sector.
Normally, you take the sector elevator down there,
it connects all the sectors.
But it won't work
while the lockdown is in effect.
- JESSE: We're already got past one lockdown.
Maybe I can find a way.
- EMILY: Jesse. Look...
With no prep, no training...
In this... extreme situation
you are doing phenomenally well!
And all that and the Hiss
can't seem to affect you.
I would love to run some tests on you.
I-If... you agree, that is.
We could find out something
that would help us.
- JESSE: Tests?
I don't know.
She might find out about you.
But I wouldn't mind understanding
more of myself.
Okay.
Anything that will help.
- EMILY: Great!
I'll check the internal documentation
for any lockdown bypasses.
We need to get these sectors open
to locate Darling and Marshall.
- JESSE: And I'll look for a way
inside the Maintenance Sector.
The sooner we find one,
the sooner I reach this override.
(TENSE MUSIC PLAYING)
- EMILY: Hi, Jesse.
- JESSE: Thanks, Emily.
I'm sure I'll have more questions soon.
- EMILY: Just let me know.
Do you hear that?
Someone's singing.
- JESSE: Singing?
Sounds like it's coming from the elevator.
- AHTI: Time to work!
Meet me in the Maintenance.
- JESSE: Like I said before...
The janitor is a friendly face.
(SWEEPING SOUND)